---
layout: post
title: Multiplatform conda in 2024
---

I have had to spin up multiple ML projects recently that have to run on both apple silicon and on CUDA. This situation is mostly
due to my own development preferences (I like to use my macbook and to not have to be at my desktop all the time), but 
it's not immediately obvious from Google searches what the best way is to do this.

# Executive Summary
Just use [pixi](https://pixi.sh/latest/), don't read the rest of this

# Why Conda?
But first, before describing how to accomplish the thing described in the title of this post, I want to go over again --
mostly to make concrete to myself -- the reasons why one might need to use Conda. The major reason is mostly **CUDA**.

## You usually have to "bring your own CUDA"
There are [currently 12](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CUDA#GPUs_supported) CUDA SDK versions in the world. Libraries
and application code typically target a specific SDK version (whatever is popular when they are written), and typically
don't bother with updates for new SDKs that come out. So your code actually probably depends on a specific version of 
CUDA to run correctly, even if just implicitly.

The only way I know of to manage multiple independent conda installs on a host is with  
[Environment Modules](https://modules.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). If your host doesn't have that
installed, then you will likely be using Conda to fetch the specific version of CUDA you need.

## Using system tools that you can't install
In a similar vein to the above, there might be other system-level dependencies that you need but aren't
allowed to install in the typical fashion. The main example here is probably a specific GCC version, 
though you may also run into the need for specific versions of MESA, OpenGL, etc. 

Many tools of this sort have Conda versions that are set up to work with the rest of the Conda environment
to ensure that all the various tools and libraries you need are all the expected version.

# Why not use Docker for this?
Sometimes you don't feel like writing and maintaining and building a dockerfile. It can be a lot of work. If you're on Apple Silicon
you will have to set up colima, and do the weird tricks to make colima use vz and the fast filesystem mount trick, and then you'll possibly
run into an insane issue where the default MacOS filesystem isn't case sensitive, whereas some library you are using
inside the docker container is, and then you'll make a new logical partition that is case sensitive, and you'll have to
do some other weird thing to make colima start all docker containers with / in a nonstandard location... and after all that
you might still have weird problems with rosetta or vz or something. 

# Why vanilla Conda doesn't work
So at this point you are using vanilla Conda to manage your environment. You might run into the following issues:

## Dependency resolution time
This shouldn't be a problem in 2024 if you are on a newer version of Conda, but old versions using the old
dependency solvers are extremely slow - on the order of an hour for a simple environment containing torch
and a few other things. If you are in an environment where you cannot update the conda version freely
this may be a hard blocker.

## Locking
Locking solved dependency sets is nice because you can ensure that installed environments are exactly the same
wrt the full dependency universe. Without pinning, you ask Conda to re-solve the environment from scratch every time you 
install something, which may cause dependency versions to shift unpredictably if upstream versions have incremented.

Conda can support locking but you will have to install [another tool](https://github.com/conda/conda-lock) to do so, assuming
you have permissions to do so. You might have to install pipx or something just to manage that tool.

## Multi-platform support
If you managed to get past the above barriers, you will then realize that you have to manage multiple different versions of
environment.yml for the different platforms you install on. When you update a dependency in one place, you will have
to remember to update that in the other location, and update both lockfiles. Though this isn't impossible to do, it
is very tiresome and can lead to weird errors when you forget to render lockfiles or update both environments.
 
# Pixi
Thankfully pixi handles basically all the above problems. The below is basically all I ever have to do
with pixi
```
pixi add --pypi robosuite
pixi add --platform linux-64 mesa-libegl-cos7-x86_64
pixi shell
pixi shell-hook --shell zsh > activate_pixi.sh
```
